- [Instructor] Let us now look at bounded types.
But before that, let's understand why we need them.
At times in certain situations,
it is more useful to put restrictions
on the types that you pass to your type parameters.
For example, in our case,
we developed box of T generic type
and then we invoked it to create a a box of fruits
and a box of books.
But since we've defined it as box of T,
that T could refer to any type
which means I can go ahead and create a box of integers.
But then, this box of integers would not hold much relevance
in our practical application.
So now I want to put a restriction on this Box class.
I want that this box should contain only those items
that have a certain attribute.
Let's call it weight for example.
So how do you implement this?
Java in conjunction with inheritance
provides a very powerful and elegant solution
to define bounded types
in order to implement such scenarios.
So bounded types help you to add restrictions
and these restrictions can be specified
using the extends keyword.
Extends is a preexisting keyword in the Java language
which is used for inheritance.
This keyboard allows you to create an upper bound
that specifies a superclass.
And the superclass is the one
from which all your type arguments must be derived.
So for example, if your box definition looks like this,
Box of T followed by the extends keyboard,
followed by the superclass name,
then this means that when you invoke the Box generic type,
T can be replaced by anything that is a superclass
or any of its subclasses.
So you can thus create an upper limit
and the superclass is inclusive of that limit.
Just as it is with classes,
you can also specify interfaces in bounded types.
So for example let's say you have an interface
called interface1
and it is specified in the box definition like this;
Box of T extends interface1.
This means when you invoke this Box generic type,
T can be replaced by anything that implements interface1.
The thing to note here is that the extends keyword
is used for both class as well as the interface
whenever you try to define bounded types in Java.
Furthermore, you can also specify multiple bounds.
This is done using the & operator.
Let's see a couple of examples.
So let's say your box definition is like this,
Box of T extends interface1 & interface2.
This means when you invoke this box,
T can be replaced by anything that implements both
interface1 and interface2.
So this is an example where you can specify
multiple interfaces as bounds in your generic types.
Let's look at another example.
Box of T extends superclass & interface1 & interface2.
Now this would mean that T can be replaced
by anything that is a superclass or any of its subclasses
and implements both interface1 and interface2.
So this example specifies a combination
of one class and multiple interfaces.
Just remember one thing here.
When you have a combination of a class
and multiple interfaces,
then you will have to specify the class first
when you define those bounded types.
If you don't do that,
you will end up getting a compilation problem.
Lastly, needless to say, since Java provides inheritance
by extending only one class at a time,
even when you define bounded types,
you can specify only one class
but you could use multiple interfaces.
Now let's go ahead and extend our box demo
to include a bounded type.
This is the structure that we have implemented so far.
We have the Box class, we have those three methods:
additem, getlatestitem and getCountOfItems.
And then you have the type argument classes: fruit and book
and we'll pick up the same use case
that we discussed before.
Now, we are going to restrict our box to have items
which have the weight attribute.
For this, we'll create an interface called Boxable.
Here, we'll declare a method called getWeight
and these type arguments fruit and book
must implement this Boxable interface.
This will ensure that both fruit and book
will have the weight property defined in them.
After this, we'll change the definition
of the Box generic type to this
Box of T extends Boxable.
So when we invoke the Box generic type,
T can be replaced by anything
that implements the Boxable interface.
Lastly, we'll add one more method to the Box class
which is getTotalWeight.
And as the name suggests,
it'll get the total weight of all the items inside the box.
This will give us a chance to use the getWeight method
from the Boxable interface.
Now let's go ahead and execute the steps
for the bounded types demo.
The first step is to create an interface Boxable
and declare that method that we need which is getWeight.
So let's head back to the IDE
and on a source folder, we'll create an interface this time.
Let's choose the option of interface here
and name this Boxable.
And inside this, we'll declare a method.
This is an interface
so it'll be a declaration of the method.
Let this method return a type of double
and let's call it getWeight.
So that's the interface.
The next step is to add Boxable bound to the Box class.
So let's go back and open the Box class.
Let's go right at the top and on line number six,
instead of Box of T,
now we'll say Box of T extends Boxable like that.
Now we'll have to be a little patient here
because the moment we change the definition
of the Box class on line number six,
we'll get a series of related problems.
Let's look at them one by one.
If you click on Related Problems
and let's see where it lands.
So it's Box Utils that's going to have the problem.
So let's open Box Utils class
and we are getting a compilation error on line number five.
It says that the type parameter T is not within its bound.
Should implement T Boxable interface.
Yes, that's correct.
Now since we changed the box declaration
to go ahead and include a bounded type,
which means the generic method
which is trying to access that T parameter of box
should also have the corresponding changes made.
So now we'll have to go ahead
and say T extends Boxable here as well.
So this spare of angle brackets
in which you're mentioning the bounded type
is the T that you're declaring for this method.
And once this is correct,
only then you'll be able to use the T in the parameter here.
Now once we make this change, we have two related problems.
So let's click that
and it gives us problem in the TestBoxGenerics class.
So let's go ahead and open that
and let's see what the problems are.
So first problem is on line number five.
We say that the book type argument
that is passed on line five is giving us a problem.
So let's see what that problem is.
Let's read the error.
It says that type parameter book is not within its bound.
Should implement the Boxable interface.
That's what we want. Correct?
We want that our type arguments
must definitely implement the Boxable interface.
If they do, then it'll be ensured
that they have that property weight.
So let's go ahead and make sure
that the book implements the Boxable interface.
So let's change the declaration on line number three
and say Book implements Boxable like that.
Now in Java, whenever you implement an interface,
yes you will have to give an implementation
to the method that was declared in the interface.
Now if you look in Boxable, the method is getWeight.
And if you come back to book,
fortunately we already have the weight property
on line number six
for which we already have the getWeight method implemented.
So if we do not really have to code any other logic here.
We are all set.
Let's go to the TestBoxGenerics class again
and we see that the error on line number five is gone.
There is another error on line number 12
and it is as expected.
It's the other type argument that we're talking about.
So let's go ahead and ensure that fruit as well
implements Boxable.
Now here as well, since we already have the weight property,
we have a getWeight method that's available on line 28.
So we do not have to give any special logic to this method.
We are good there as well.
So now the errors are gone.
The next step will be to add a method to the Box class
which is the getTotalWeight
and this should use the Boxable API.
So we are going to add this getTotalWeight method
to the Box class.
Yes and if you see, now that we're inside Box class,
all the related problems here have vanished as well.
So let's go ahead and add that method.
Let's say public.
This will return a value of of the type double
and let's call this getTotalWeight.
What we're going to do here is
we are going to iterate that list of items that we have
on line Number seven,
pick up each item, get the weight of each individual item,
sum it up and return that as a double value.
This is what we want to do in this method.
Now there are two approaches to this.
You can either use traditional Java code
where you iterate that list of items using the for loop
and then you grab the weight of every item
and keep adding it to the weight property.
But the other way is to use the stream API
which is very exciting.
This is the feature that is available in Java eight.
So we will go ahead with that.
We'll say return this start items.
So the first part is we access the items list.
Now we are going to run the stream method on it.
This will give us a stream of those items.
And every item that we get in the stream,
we are going to map it to a double value.
Why double value?
Because the weight data type is double.
And when you say map to double,
you'll have to provide this method of function
which will ensure that you get a double value.
So the double value could be returned
by the getWeight method of the Boxable class.
So let's feed that here, Boxable.
I'm going to use method references concept
and access the getWeight method.
Once you get that double value,
you just have to invoke the sum method
which is going to sum up all the weights
and return that as a double value to you.
So it is as simple as writing this one line of code
which will give you the total weight.
If you're not very comfortable with this Java eight
streams API,
you can definitely write code something like this.
So you'll iterate the list of items.
So we say for every T in this .items.
You need to calculate the weight.
And before that, just on line number 26,
we will take a double property and set this to 0.0.
This is a local variable
and on line 27, we have the for loop.
Please note that we are using the enhanced for loop here.
And then you can just say TotalWeight
plus equal to t.getWeight.
That is all that you have to do.
So this is how you'll traditionally write the code
in order to calculate the weight
but I'll still prefer the streams API.
So I'm going to take this off and save the score
which will return us the total weight.
Let's also delete the extra line that we have
and we are good.
Let's go ahead and execute the last step
which is testing the program output.
So we will now go to the TestBoxGenerics class
and on line number 11, we'll say sys out
and say total weight of book box
and then call the getTotalWeight on the bookBox variable.
Let's copy this line and come down
and on line number 19, I'll paste it.
And I'll just change all the references here
to the fruit box.
So you'll invoke the getTotalWeight method
on the fruit box.
All right, so we are all set.
Let's go ahead and run this program
and everything should work well.
Let's observe the output.
Okay, so we have the output.
I'm just going to expand this console a little bit
so that we are able to see everything.
Right so in the box we had two items.
One was the Harry Potter book which weighed 0.5
and then the Deep Work book, which weighed 0.25.
So if you see the total weight is now 0.75
which is correct.
And then we had the box of fruits.
One item was 0.5 and the other was 0.3
and we've got a total weight of 0.8.
Right so that's your demo.
This is what we did.
We implement a bounded type on a Box generic class.
So now it's ensured that anything that you try to add
in the box
will always have the weight property.